---
title: 启动子与基因表达分析文献
link: https://lufuhao.wordpress.com/2010/08/17/%e5%90%af%e5%8a%a8%e5%ad%90%e4%b8%8e%e5%9f%ba%e5%9b%a0%e8%a1%a8%e8%be%be%e5%88%86%e6%9e%90%e6%96%87%e7%8c%ae/
post_id: 44
created: 2010/08/17 13:01:51
created_gmt: 2010/08/17 13:01:51
comment_status: open
post_name: 启动子与基因表达分析文献
status: publish
post_type: post
---

# 启动子与基因表达分析文献

> 2010/08/17 13:01:51

> 

## （1）诱变 

Ho SN, Hunt HD, Horton RM, Pullen JK, Pease LR. **Site-directed mutagenesis by overlap extension using the polymerase chain reaction**. Gene, 1989, 77: 51-58 

Seraphin B, Kandels-Lewis S. **An efficient PCR mutagenesis strategy without gel purification step that is amenable to automation**. Nucl Acids Res, 1996, 24: 3276-3277 

## （2）GFP 

Davis S J, Vierstra R D. **Soluble, highly fluorescent variants of green fluorescent protein (GFP) for use in higher plants**. Plant Mol Biol, 1998, 36: 521-528 

Patterson GH, Knoble SM, Sharif WD, Kain SR, Piston DW. **Use of the green fluorescent protein and its mutants in fluorescence microscopy**. Biophys J, 1997, 73; 2782-2790 

Furtado A, Henry RJ. **Measurement of green fluorescent protein in single cells by image analysis**. Anal Biochem, 2002, 310: 84-92 

Haseloff J, Siemering KR, Prasher DC, Hodge S. **Removal of a cryptic intron and subcellular localization of green fluorescent protein are required to mark transgenic Arabidopsis plants brightly**. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA, 1997, 94: 2122-2127 

## （3）GUS 

Jefferson R A. **A assay chimeric genes in plants: The gus gene fusion system**. Plant Molecular Biology Report, 1987, 5: 384-405 

Jefferson R A, Kavanagh T A, Bevan M W. **GUS fusions: -Glucuronidase as a sensitive and versatile gene fusion marker in higher plants**. EMBO J, 1987, 6: 3901-3907 

Jefferson RA, Burgess SM, Hirsh D. **Beta-glucoronidase from Escherichia coli as a gene-fusion marker**. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA, 1986, 83: 8447-8451 

Kosugi S, Ohashi Y, Nakajima K, Arai Y. **An improved assay for β–glucuronidase in transformed cells: Methanol almost completely suppresses a putative endogenous β–glucuronidase activity**. Plant Sci, 1990, 70: 133-140 

Bradford M M. **A rapid and sensitive method for the quantification of microgram quantities of protein utilizing the principle of protein-dye binding**. Annual of Biochemistry, 1976, 72: 248-254 

Stangeland B, Salehian Z. 2002. **An improved clearing method for GUS assay in _Arabidopsis_ endosperm and seed**. _Plant Molecular Biology Reporter_ 20, 107–114. 

Stangeland B, Salehian Z, Aalen R, Mandal A, Olsen OA. 2003. **Isolation of GUS marker lines for genes expressed in _Arabidopsis_ endosperm, embryo, and maternal tissues**. _Journal of Experimental Botany_ 54, 279–290 

Hill HD, Straka JG. **Protein determination using bicinchonini acid in the presence of sulfhydryl reagents**. Anal. Biochem., 1988, 170, 203-208 

朗春秀，胡张华. **分析植株中GUS表达的两种快速简便方法**. 植物生理学通讯， 2002， 38（4）： 366-367 

## （4）LUC 

Sherf BA, Wood KV. **Firefly luciferase engineered for improved genetic reporting**. Promega Notes, 1994, 49: 14-21 

Olsson O, Esher A, Koncz C, Sandberg G, Schell J, Szalay AA. **Engineering of monomeric bacterial luciferases by fusion of _lux_A AND _lux_B genes of _Vibrio harvey_**. Gene, 1989, 81: 335-347 

## （5）Northern blot 

Barbu V, Dautry F. **Northern blot normalization with a 28S rRNA oligonucleotide probe**. Nucl Acids Res, 1989, 17: 7115 

De Leeuw WJF, Slagboom PE, Vijg J. **Quantitative comparison of RNA levels in mammalian tissues: 28S ribosomal RNA level as an accurate internal standard**. Nucl Acids Res, 1989, 17: 10137-10138 

## （6）启动子 

Benfey P N, Ren L, Chua N H. **The CaMV 35S enhancer contains at least two domains which can confer different developmental and tissue-specific expression patterns**. EMBO J, 8: 2195-2202 

Benfey P N, Ren L, Chua N H. **The cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter: Combinatorial regulation of transcription in plants**. Science, 1990, 250: 959-966 

Van der Geest AH, Hall TC. **A 68 bp element of the phaseolin promoter functions as a seed-specific enhancer**. Plant Mol Biol, 1996, 32: 579-588 

Mandal A, Sandgren M, Holmström K-O, Gallois P, Palva ET. 1995. **Identification of _Arabidopsis thaliana _sequences responsive to low temperature and abscisic acid by T-DNA tagging and _in vivo_ gene fusion**. Plant Molecular Biology Reporter, 13, 243–254

Hemerly A S, Ferreira P, de Almeida Engler J, Van Montagu M, Engler G, Inze D. **cdc2a expression in _Arabidopsis_ is linked with competence for cell division**. Plant Cell, 1993, 5: 1711-1723 

Haseloff J, Siemering K R, Prasher D C, Hodge S. **Removal of a cryptic intron and subcellular localization of green fluorescent protein are required to mark transgenic _Arabidopsis_ plants brightly**. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA, 1997, 94: 2122-2127 

Li XQ, Zhang MD, Brown GG. **Cell-specific expression of plant mitochondrial transcripts in maize seedlings**. Plant Cell, 1996, 8; 1961-1975 

Watanabe K, Okada K. **Two discrete _cis_ elements control the abaxial side-specific expression of the _FILAMENTOUS FLOWER_ gene in _Arabidopsis_**. The Plant Cell, 2003, 15: 2592-2602 

Sheldon C C, Bonn AB, Dennis E S, Peacock W J. **Different regulatory regions are required for the vernalization-induced repression of FLOWERING LOCUS C and for the epigenetic maintenance of repression**. The Plant Cell, 2002, 14: 2527-2537 

Dolferus R, Jacobs M, Peacock W J, Dennis E S. **Differential interactions of promoter elements in stress response of the _Arabidopsis Adh_ gene**. Plant Physiol, 1994, 105: 1075-1087 

Dietrich R A, Radke S E, Harada J J. **Downstream DNA sequences are required to activate a gene expressed in the root cortex of embryos and seedlings**. The Plant Cell, 1992, 4: 1372-1382 

Bastos MM, Begum D, Kalkan FA, Battraw MJ, Hall TC. **Positive and negative cis-acting DNA domains are required for spatial and temporal regulation of gene expression by a seed storage protein promoter**. EMBO J, 1991, 10: 1469-1479 

Graber J H, Cantor C R, Mohr, Smith T F. **In silico detection of control signals: mRNA 3’-end-processing sequences in diverse species**. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA, 1999, 96: 14055-14060 

Ch’ng JLC, Shoemaker DL, Schlmmel P, Holmes EW. **Reversal of creatine kinase translational expression by 3’ untranslated sequences**. Science, 1990, 248: 1003-1006 

Chol OR, Engel JD. **A 3’ enhancer is required for temporal and tissue-specific transcriptional activation of the chicken adult beta-globin gene**. Nature, 1986, 323: 731-734 

Dean C, Favreau M, Bond-Nutter D, Bedbrook J, Dunsmuir P. **Sequences downstream of translation start regulate quantitative expression of two petunia rbcS genes**. Plant Cell, 1989, 1: 201-208 

Jackson RJ, Standart N. **Do the poly(A) tail and 3’ untranslated region control mRNA translation?** Cell, 1990, 62: 15-24 

Munroe D, Jackson A. **mRNA poly(A) tail, a 3’ enhancer of translation initiation**. Mol Cell Biol, 1990, 10: 3441-3455 

Ohl S, Hedrick SA, Chory J, Lamb CJ. **Functional properties of a phenylalanine ammonia-lyase promoter from Arabidopsis**. Plant Cell, 1990, 2: 837-848 

Yamamoto YT, Talor CG, Acedo GN, Cheng C-L, Conkling MA. **Characterization of cis-acting sequences regulating root-specific gene expression in tobacco**. Plant Cell, 1991, 3: 371-382 

Nelson D E, Raghothama K G, Singh N K, Hasegawa P M, Bressan R A. **Analysis of structure and transcriptional activation of an OSM gene**. Plant Mol Biol, 1992, 

David Thirkettle-Watts, Tulene C. McCabe, Rachel Clifton, Carolyn Moore, Patrick M. Finnegan, David A. Day and James Whelan. **Analysis of the Alternative Oxidase Promoters from Soybean**. Plant Physiology 133:1158-1169 (2003) 

Sieburth LE, Meyerowitz EM. 1997. **Molecular dissection of the _AGAMOUS_ control region shows that _cis_ elements for spatial regulation are located intragenically**. The Plant Cell 9, 355–365 

Liu HX, Filipowicz W. **Mapping of branchpoint nucleotides in mutant pre-mRNAs expressed in plant cells**. Plant J, 1996, 9: 381-389 

Shiina T, Nishii A, Toyoshima Y, Bogorad L. **Identification of promoter elements involved in the cytosolic Ca2+-mediated photoregulation of maize cab-m1 expression**. Plant Physiol, 1997, 115: 477-483  (transient expression assays) 

Tim Thurau, Sirak Kifle, Christian Jung and Daguang Cai. **The promoter of the nematode resistance gene Hs1pro−1 activates a nematode-responsive and feeding site-specific gene expression in sugar beet (_Beta vulgaris_ L.) and _Arabidopsis thaliana_**. Plant Mol Biol, 1992, 52: 643-660 

Fusada N, Masuda T, Kuroda H, Shimada H, Ohta H, Takamiya K-I. **Identification of a novel _cis_-element exhibiting cytokinin-dependent protein binding _in vitro_ in the 5′-region of NADPH-protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase gene in cucumber**. Plant Mol Biol, 2005, 59: 631-645 

Ng D W-K, Chandrasekharan MB, Hall TC. **The 5′ UTR negatively regulate quantitative and spatial expression from the ABI3 promoter**. Plant Mol Biol, 2004, 54: 25-38 

Z. B. Liu, T. Ulmasov, X. Shi, G. Hagen and T. J. Guilfoyle. **Soybean GH3 Promoter Contains Multiple Auxin-Inducible Elements**. THE PLANT CELL, 1994, Vol 6, Issue 5 645-657 

Ulmasov T, Murfett J, Hagen G, Guilfoyle T J. **Aux/IAA proteins repress expression of reporter genes containing natural and highly active synthetic auxin response elements**. Plant Cell, 1997, 9: 1963-1971 

Diener A C, Li H, Zhou W, Whoriskey W J, Nes W D, Fink G R. **Sterol methyl-transferase 1 controls the level of cholesterol in plants**. Plant Cell, 2000, 12: 853-870 

Friml J, Vieten A, Sauer M, Weijers D, Schwarz H, Hamann T, Offringa R, Jürgens G(2003). **Efflux-dependent auxin gradients establish the apical-basal axis of Arabidopsis**. Nature, 426: 147~153 

Blilou I, Xu J, Wildwater M, Willemsen V, Paponov I, Friml J, Heidstra R, Aida M, Palme K, Scheres B. **The PIN auxin efflux facilitatior network controls growth and patterning in _Arabidopsis_ roots**. Nature, 2005, 433: 39-44 

## （7）启动子陷阱（捕获） 

Topping J F, Lindsey K. **Promoter trap markers differentiated structural and positional components of polar development in Arabidopsis**. The Plant Cell, 1991, 9: 1713-1725 

Topping JF, Agyeman F, Henricot B, Lindsey K. 1994. **Identification of molecular markers of embryogenesis in _Arabidopsis thaliana_ by promoter trapping**. The Plant Journal 5, 895–903 

Topping JF, Lindsey K. 1997. **Promoter trap markers differentiate structural and positional components of polar development in Arabidopsis**. The Plant Cell 9, 1713–1725 

Topping JF, Wei W, Lindsey K. 1991. **Functional tagging of regulatory elements in the plant genome**. _Development_ 112, 1009–1019 

## （8）确定启动子的起始（determine the onset of the respective promoter activities） 

Yamaizumi M, Mekada E, Uchida T, Okada Y. **One molecule of diphtheria toxin fragment A introduced into a cell can kill the cell**. Cell, 1978, 15: 245-250 

Day CD, Galagoci BF, Irish VF. **Genetic ablation of petal and stamen primordial to elucidate cell interactions during floral development**. Development, 1995, 121: 2887-2895 

Twell D. **Diphtheria toxin-mediated cell ablation in developing pollen: vegetative cell ablation blocks generative cell migration**. Prtoplasma, 1995, 187: 144-154 

Lauri A, Xing S, Heidmann I, Saedler H, Zachgo S. **The pollen-specific _DEFH125_ promoter from _Antirrhinum_ is bound in vivo by the MADS-box proteins DEFICIENS and GLOBOSA**. Planta, 2006, 224: 61-71
